Create blog post about errors in OpenTelemetry (#4105)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io: content/en/blog/2024/otel-errors/index.md

---

> title: Dude, where's my error? How OpenTelemetry records errors

Reviewer: lol... I understant that reference, so it is a blog post for old people like me (yes, that movie is 20+years old!)

> linkTitle: OTel Errors

Author: "Understanding OTel Errors"?

for throwing and catching exceptions. 

When you begin at a place where different languages disagree about what an error 
or exception is and how to handle them, what do you use when you need standardized 
telemetry and error reporting across microservices written in those languages? 
OpenTelemetry is the tool with which we'll address the following, and more:

* How an error is visualized in a backend may not be where you think it’ll be, 
or how you expect it to look. 
* How span kind affects error reporting. 
* Errors reported by spans vs logs.

## Errors vs exceptions

Before we get into how OTel deals with errors and exceptions, let’s establish 
what they are, and how they’re different from each other. While there are 
variations on the definitions of these terms, we’ve landed on the ones below, 
which we’ll be using in this article:

An **error** is an unexpected issue in a program that hinders its execution. 
Examples include syntax errors, such as a missing semicolon or incorrect 
indentation, and runtime errors, resulting from errors in logic.

An **exception** is a type of runtime error that disrupts the normal flow of a 

> program. Examples include dividing by zero or accessing an invalid memory address. 

Reviewer: see the other discussion above, if they would be official definitions, yes, but since this is for the article, I would try to avoid make it look too much like a "definitive definition"

alpha or experimental) before the corresponding language is added. 

Another exception is when a language might decide to diverge from the spec. 
Although it is generally not advised, sometimes there are strong language-specific 
reasons to do something different. In this way, the spec allows for some 
flexibility for each language to implement features as idiomatically as possible. 
For example, most languages have implemented `RecordException` (e.g. [Python](https://opentelemetry-python.readthedocs.io/en/latest/_modules/opentelemetry/sdk/trace.html#Span.record_exception)), while Go has 
implemented [`RecordError`](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go/blob/main/sdk/trace/span.go), which does the same thing. 

You can view this [compliance matrix](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/spec-compliance-matrix.md) of the spec across all languages, but you’ll 
get the most updated info by checking the individual language repository. Now we have 
a place from which to begin figuring out how to handle errors in OTel, starting 
with how to report them:
* In spans

> * In logs

Author: Ahh I see what you mean. I'll change this.

To record an error on a log, either `exception.type` or `exception.message` is 
required, while `exception.stacktrace` is recommended. You can view more 
information about the semantic conventions for log exceptions [here](/docs/specs/semconv/exceptions/exceptions-logs/).

## Logs or spans to capture errors?

After all this, you might be wondering which signal to use to capture errors: 
spans or logs? The answer is: "It depends!" Perhaps your team primarily uses 
traces; perhaps it primarily uses logs.

Spans can be great for capturing errors, because if the operation errors out, 
marking a span as an error makes it stand out and therefore easier to spot. On 
the other hand, if you’re not filtering or tail sampling your traces and your 
system is producing thousands of spans per minute, you could miss errors that 
aren’t occurring frequently, but that still need to be handled. 

What about using span events versus logs? Again, this depends. It may be 
convenient to use span events, because when a span status is set to `Error`, a 
span event with the exception message (and other metadata you may wish to capture) 

> is automagically created. 

Reviewer: yes, but please only locally for this blog post, automatically and automagically are too close to each other

one exception and it’s on an internal span with its status set to `Error`, you 
should see the trace marked with an error, but it may not be counted toward your 
overall app error rate. This is because the vendor might have an opinion that 
only errors on entry point spans (server spans) and consumer spans should be 
counted toward your error rate. 

If your backend supports trace and log correlation, you should be able to 
navigate to the associated trace from the log, and vice versa. Furthermore, 
while Jaeger visualizes span events as logs, some vendors might synthesize span 
events as its own data type instead of as a log data type, which would impact 
the way you query that data.

## Conclusion
Error handling is a challenging yet essential aspect of software development, and 
OTel offers a comprehensive solution for navigating its complexities. By 
leveraging OTel's capabilities to record errors through logs and spans and to 
enhance spans with metadata, you can gain deeper insights into your applications' 
behavior and more effectively troubleshoot issues. You'll be better equipped to 
build and maintain resilient, reliable, and high-performing software applications 

> in today's dynamic and demanding environments. 

Reviewer 2: This sounds more like an intro. Could you recap what the reader just went through, reminding which key aspects should be considered and what the desired outcome is?

Author: Done!

Here is a trace view for the service [py-otel-server](https://github.com/avillela/otel-errors-talk/blob/main/src/python/server.py). As you can see below, the error spans show up as red dots:

![List of traces in the Jaeger UI](Jaeger01.png)

And if we drill down and zero in on the error span, we see this:

![Attributes and other metadata for an error span in Jaeger](Jaeger02.png)

The span is clearly marked as error, and includes a span event with the exception 
captured. Jaeger expresses the span event as a log, but does not visualize logs 
outside of spans. 

### Proprietary backends 

If you’ve been using a proprietary agent to monitor your applications and have 
recently migrated to OTel, you might notice that an OTel error may not be 
expressed the way you expect in your observability backend, as compared to the 
same error captured by the proprietary agent. This is most likely due to the 
fact that OTel simply models errors differently than how vendors have been 
modeling them. 

As a broad example, vendors might have their own notion of what constitutes a 
logical unit of work in an application. You may be familiar with the term 

> `transaction`, which means something slightly different from vendor to vendor. 
> In OTel, this is represented by a span. You’ve likely noticed differences in 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`transaction`, which means something slightly different from vendor to vendor. 
In OTel, this is represented by a trace. You’ve likely noticed differences in 
```

---

> title: Dude, Where's My Error? How OpenTelemetry Records Errors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Dude, where's my error? How OpenTelemetry records errors
```

I know that titles for KubeCon are in captial case, but I think we have that somewhere in some style gudies to not do with our titles

linkTitle: OTel Errors
date: 2024-03-06
author: >- # If you have only one author, then add the single name on this line in quotes.
  [Reese Lee](https://github.com/reese-lee) (New Relic),
  [Adriana Villela](https://github.com/avillela) (ServiceNow)

> draft: true # TODO: remove this line once your post is ready to be published

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

# canonical_url: http://somewhere.else/ # TODO: if this blog post has been posted somewhere else already, uncomment & provide the canonical URL here.
---
Depending on the language(s) you’re used to developing in, you may have certain 
ideas about what an error is, as well as what constitutes an exception and how 
it should be handled. For example, Go does not have exceptions, partly to 
discourage programmers from labeling too many ordinary errors as exceptional. 
On the other hand, languages such as Java and Python provide built-in support 
for throwing and catching exceptions. 

When you begin at a place where different languages disagree about what an error 
or exception is and how to handle them, where do you go when you need standardized 
telemetry and error reporting across microservices written in those languages? 
OpenTelemetry is the key to this answer, and is the lens through which we’ll 

> address the following, and more:

Reviewer: These 2 sentences create 3 different pictures:
* Where do you go? (a place)
* OpenTelemetry is the key (unlock something)
* It is the lens (look through something)

Can you make this consistent somehow?

Author: I modified this to
>When you begin at a place where different languages disagree about what an error 
or exception is and how to handle them, what do you use when you need standardized 
telemetry and error reporting across microservices written in those languages? 
OpenTelemetry is the tool with which we'll address the following, and more:

Does that work?

Reviewer: yes, thanks

* How an error is visualized in a backend may not be where you think it’ll be, 
or how you expect it to look. 
* How span kind affects error reporting. 
* Errors reported by spans vs logs.

> ## Errors vs Exceptions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Errors vs exceptions

```

Before we get into how OTel deals with errors and exceptions, let’s establish 
what they are, and how they’re different from each other. While there are 
variations on the definitions of these terms, we’ve landed on the ones below, 
which we’ll be using in this article:

An **error** is an unexpected issue in a program that hinders its execution. 
Examples include syntax errors, such as a missing semicolon or incorrect 
indentation, and runtime errors, resulting from errors in logic.

An **exception** is a type of runtime error that disrupts the normal flow of a 

> program. Examples include dividing by zero or accessing an invalid memory address. 

Reviewer: Do we have some definitions in the spec on what an error, exception is, are your definitions similar to them? We should make sure that those things are consistent.

Author: Hm, so I actually looked for these, and there is no explicit definition in the spec that I was able to find. There are instead guidelines on how to handle errors and exceptions, perhaps I can write up a couple sentences to explain this -- would that work?

Reviewer: What is important to me is that it is 100% clear to a reader that does definitions are not opentelemetry language but what you use in this article. So the following needs to be stronger:

> we’ve landed on the following ones, which we’ll be using in this article:

This is where the [specification](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/) (or 
“spec” for short) comes in. The spec provides a blueprint for developers working 
on various parts of the project, and standardizes implementation across all 
languages. 

Since language APIs and SDKs are implementations of the spec, there are general 
rules against implementing anything that isn’t covered in the spec. This provides 
a guiding principle to help organize contributions to the project. In practice, 
there are a few exceptions; for example, a language might prototype a new feature 
as part of adding it to the spec, but the feature may be published (usually as 
alpha or experimental) before the corresponding language is added. 

Another exception is when a language might decide to diverge from the spec. 
Although it is generally not advised, sometimes there are strong language-specific 
reasons to do something different. In this way, the spec allows for some 
flexibility for each language to implement features as idiomatically as possible. 
For example, most languages have implemented `RecordException`, while Go has 

> implemented `RecordError`, which does the same thing. 

Reviewer: does not have to be linked in the blog post, but can you share some evidence for this being true (not that go uses a different name, but that the spec allows that flexibility)

Reviewer: no, I think that's good enough, I was assuming this is in the spec somewhere.

You can view this [compliance matrix](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/spec-compliance-matrix.md) of the spec across all languages, but you’ll 

> get the most updated info by checking the individual language repo. Now we have 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
get the most updated info by checking the individual language repository. Now we have 
```

a place from which to begin figuring out how to handle errors in OTel, starting 
with how to report them:
* In spans
* In logs
  

> ### Errors Depicted in Spans

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Errors depicted in spans

```

Optional: "depicted" is not a very common word for non native speakers, so they may stumble upon this

In OTel, spans are the building blocks of distributed traces, representing 
individual units of work within a distributed system. Spans are related to each 
other and to a trace through context. Put simply, context is the glue that turns 
a pack of data into a unified trace. Context propagation allows us to pass 
information across multiple systems, therefore tying them together. Traces can 
tell us all sorts of things about our applications through metadata and span 
events.

![Graphic that shows the spans within a trace](OTel-spans.png)

> ### Enhancing Spans with Metadata

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Enhancing spans with metadata

```

handling can significantly reduce the time and effort required to diagnose and 
resolve issues, ultimately improving the reliability and maintainability of your 
applications.

Spans also have a [span kind](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/concepts/signals/traces/#span-kind) 
field, which gives us some additional metadata that can help developers 
troubleshoot errors. OTel defines several span kinds, each of which has unique 
implications for error reporting: 
* **client**: For outgoing synchronous remote calls (e.g. outgoing HTTP request 
or DB call)
* **server**: For incoming synchronous remote calls (e.g. incoming HTTP request 
or remote procedure call)
* **internal**: For operations that do not cross process boundaries (e.g. 
instrumenting a function call)
* **producer**: For the creation of a job which may be asynchronously processed 
later (e.g. job inserted into a job queue)
* **consumer**: For the processing of a job created by a producer, which may start 
long after the producer span has ended 

Span kind is determined automatically by the instrumentation libraries used. In 
the event that a span kind has been incorrectly set, you may be able to 

> [override](https://developer.newrelic.com/collect-data/opentelemetry-manual/custom-span-event/) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[override](https://developer.newrelic.com/collect-data/opentelemetry-manual/custom-span-event/) 
```

Can you update this with a link to the OpenTelemetry documentation?

Author: A bit weird... I know you were able to do this at one point -- I've done it before -- but now I cannot find any documentation on it. I see in [OTel-JS doc](https://open-telemetry.github.io/opentelemetry-js/classes/_opentelemetry_sdk_trace_base.Span.html#kind) it says span kind is a read-only property. So perhaps something changed. I'll remove this entire paragraph.

it while you await a possible bug fix. 

Spans can be further enhanced with [span status](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/concepts/signals/traces/#span-status). By default, span status is marked as `Unset` unless otherwise 
specified. You can mark a span status as `Error` if the resulting span depicts an 
error, and `Ok` if the resulting span is error-free. 

> ### Enhancing Spans with Span Events

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Enhancing spans with span events

```

A [span event](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/concepts/signals/traces/#span-events) 
is a structured log message embedded within a span. Span events help enhance spans 

> by providing descriptive information about a span. [Span events can also have 
> attributes of their own](https://opentelemetry-python.readthedocs.io/en/latest/_modules/opentelemetry/trace/span.html#NonRecordingSpan.add_event). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
by providing descriptive information about a span. [Span events can also have 
attributes of their own](https://opentelemetry-python.readthedocs.io/en/latest/_modules/opentelemetry/trace/span.html#NonRecordingSpan.add_event). 
```

Is there a link within the docs on opentelemetry.io that can be used for that?

When a span status is set to `Error`, a span event is created automatically, 
capturing the span’s resulting error message and stack trace as an event on that 
span. You can further enhance this span error by adding attributes to it.

Earlier, we mentioned a method called `RecordException`. Per the spec (emphasis 
our own), “To facilitate recording an exception languages SHOULD provide a 
RecordException method **if the language uses exceptions**… The signature of the 

> method is to be determined by each language and can be overloaded as appropriate.” 

Reviewer: is this a quote from the spec? If so link to that place

Since Go doesn’t support the “conventional” concept of exceptions, it instead 
supports [`RecordError`](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go/blob/main/sdk/trace/span.go#L445-L467), which essentially does the same thing idiomatically. You have to 
make an additional call to set its status to `Error` if that’s what it should be, 
as it won’t automatically be set to that. Similarly, `RecordException` can be used 

> to record span events without setting the span’s status to ERROR, which means you 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to record span events without setting the span’s status to `Error`, which means you 
```

can use it to record any additional data about a span. 

By decoupling the span status from being automatically set to `Error` when a span 
exception occurs, you can support the use case where you can have an exception 
event with a status of `Ok` or `Unset`. This gives instrumentation authors the 
most flexibility. 

> ### Errors Depicted in Logs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Errors depicted in logs

```

In OTel, a log is a structured, timestamped message emitted by a service or other 
component. The recent addition of logs to OTel gives us yet another way of 
reporting errors. Logs have traditionally had different severity levels for 
representing the type of message being emitted such as `DEBUG`, `INFO`, `WARNING`, 
`ERROR`, and `CRITICAL`.

OTel allows for the correlation of logs to traces, in which a log message can be 
associated to a span within a trace, via trace context correlation. Hence, looking 

> for a log message with a log level of ERROR or CRITICAL can yield further 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for a log message with a log level of `ERROR` or `CRITICAL` can yield further 
```

information of what led to that error, by pulling up the correlated trace.

To record an error on a log, either `exception.type` or `exception.message` is 
required, while `exception.stacktrace` is recommended. You can view more 

> information about the semantic conventions for log exceptions [here](https://github.com/open-telemetry/semantic-conventions/blob/main/docs/exceptions/exceptions-logs.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
information about the semantic conventions for log exceptions [here](https://github.com/open-telemetry/semantic-conventions/blob/main/docs/exceptions/exceptions-logs.md).
```
```suggestion
information about the semantic conventions for log exceptions [here](/docs/specs/semconv/exceptions/exceptions-logs/).
```

> ## Logs or Spans to Capture Errors?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Logs or spans to capture errors?

```

After all this, you might be wondering which signal to use to capture errors: 
spans or logs? The answer is: "It depends!" Perhaps your team primarily uses 
traces; perhaps they primarily use logs.

Spans can be great for capturing errors, because if the operation errors out, 
marking a span as an error makes it stand out and therefore easier to spot. On 
the other hand, if you’re not filtering or tail sampling your traces and your 
system is producing thousands of spans per minute, you could miss errors that 
aren’t occurring frequently, but that still need to be handled. 

What about using span events versus logs? Again, this depends. It may be 
convenient to use span events, because when a span status is set to `Error`, a 
span event with the exception message (and other metadata you may wish to capture) 
is automagically created. 

Another consideration is your observability backend. Does your backend render 
both logs and traces? How easily queryable or discoverable are your logs, spans, 
and span events? Is logs and trace correlation supported?

> ## Visualizing Errors in Different Backends:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Visualizing errors in different backends

```

Reviewer: A few notes on this section in general:

* provide higher resolutions for the screenshots attached to the blog post, I can barely see anything on them.
* as always I have mixed feelings about putting screenshots from commercial vendors into a blog post. I don't think it's much of a concern for the KubeCon talk, but we try to keep the vendor-neutrality high. Do you think it subtracts a lot of value from this blog post if we remove them and keep jaeger only?

Author: * Yes, I became aware of how low-res they were once I saw the preview; we will replace them with hi-res images.
* We also debated on screen shots from vendors. We do think it's something that's of value to end users, as it shows how the same OTel error is expressed in different backends. We took care to remove any mention of the vendors and keep them anonymous (although we are aware some people may be able to guess). We tried to keep it as factual as possible and not pitch anything. Of course, we are happy to remove them altogether if you feel strongly against it, but wanted to open a convo about it first @svrnm

Author: One idea was, if it'd be helpful and is supported, to shorten this section by using a carousel for the images. That way readers have to click through the images to view them, and we can place Jaeger or use a cover image as the first image so the vendor screen shots are not explicitly shown. Thoughts?

Reviewer: I understand where you are coming from, but including vendor material (in this ), is always something we need to be careful about, even if it is anonymized.

We have 2 options here: 
* you remove that section, or reduce it to a minimum (show the jaeger part, and add a pure textual section that different backends may behave differently) and we are fine.
* we discuss what needs to be done to be in line with [our guidelines](https://github.com/open-telemetry/community/blob/main/social-media-guide.md). As the argument you make is that this falls under "It's OK to refer to a specific product or service in the context of a technical discussion, but avoid promoting a specific product or service over others.". In this case I'd like to have consensus among @open-telemetry/docs-maintainers that we are good here.

I am fine either way, just let me know what you prefer to do

Reviewer: re-opening this, to double check what we want to do here. 

@open-telemetry/docs-maintainers PTAL as well

Reviewer 3: i feel like this is is one of those "if you didn't bring enough for the whole class..." situations. 

> you remove that section, or reduce it to a minimum (show the jaeger part, and add a pure textual section that different backends may behave differently) and we are fine.

I'd be OK with this; discuss how different tools offer different options, but don't show them.

Author: Thank you both! Adriana and I decided to go with Severin's first option, so I'll make those changes shortly.

Reviewer: thanks!

Author: I reworked this entire section. Can you lmk your thoughts?

Author: I uploaded the images via the GH UI and I don't know how to remove them

Reviewer: if you click on the `...` besides the images on the Files view of this PR you _might_ be able to delete them. If not, you need to pull the PR locally and remove them (I use the gh cli tool for that, which allows you to do `gh pr checkout 4105`), let me know if I should do that for you

Reviewer: > I reworked this entire section. Can you lmk your thoughts?

looks good now, had only 1 minor remark

Author: @svrnm Can you please remove the images for me if it's not an inconvenience 🙏 Thank you!

Author: Nvm I managed to do it!

same error captured by the proprietary agent. This is  most likely due to the fact 
that OTel simply models errors differently than how vendors have been modeling 
them. 

As one example, OTel’s notion of span kinds may affect how your OTel error is 
visualized. For instance, if you have a trace that has one exception and it’s on 
an internal span with its status set to `Error`, you should see the trace marked 
with an error, but it may not be counted toward your app error rate. This is 
because the backend may have an opinion that only errors on entry point spans 
(server spans) and consumer spans should be counted toward your error rate. 

Furthermore, while [Jaeger](https://www.jaegertracing.io/) visualizes span events 
as logs, some backends may synthesize span events as its own data type instead of 
as a log data type, which would impact the way you query that data. 

What might some of these errors look like in an observability backend? We’ll take 
a look at Jaeger and a couple proprietary examples. The following screen captures 
show how different observability backends render the same error data differently. 

> The error data was generated by the code in [this repo](https://github.com/avillela/otel-errors-talk).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The error data was generated by the code in [this repository](https://github.com/avillela/otel-errors-talk).
```

the repo is still private I guess?

Author: Oh yes! We will make that public, thank you for the call-out.

---
title: Dude, where's my error? How OpenTelemetry records errors
linkTitle: Understanding OTel Errors
date: 2024-03-06

> author:
>   >- # If you have only one author, then add the single name on this line in quotes.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
author: >-
```

  [Reese Lee](https://github.com/reese-lee) (New Relic), [Adriana
  Villela](https://github.com/avillela) (ServiceNow)
canonical_url: https://newrelic.com/blog/how-to-relic/dude-wheres-my-error
---

> ![A confused penguin trying to learn about errors and exceptions](penguin-chalkboard.jpg)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
![A confused penguin trying to learn about errors and exceptions. Image generated with AI using Dalle3 via Bing Copilot](penguin-chalkboard.jpg)
```

---
title: Dude, where's my error? How OpenTelemetry records errors
linkTitle: Understanding OTel Errors

> date: 2024-03-06

Reviewer 4: Let's refresh the date a bit :)

```suggestion
date: 2024-03-27
```

> date: 2024-03-27

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
date: 2024-04-13
```

## Errors in OpenTelemetry
So how does OTel deal with all these conceptual differences across languages? 
This is where the [specification](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/) (or 
“spec” for short) comes in. The spec provides a blueprint for developers working 
on various parts of the project, and standardizes implementation across all 
languages. 

Since language APIs and SDKs are implementations of the spec, there are general 
rules against implementing anything that isn’t covered in the spec. This provides 
a guiding principle to help organize contributions to the project. In practice, 
there are a few exceptions; for example, a language might prototype a new feature 
as part of adding it to the spec, but the feature may be published (usually as 
alpha or experimental) before the corresponding language is added. 

Another exception is when a language might decide to diverge from the spec. 
Although it is generally not advised, sometimes there are strong language-specific 
reasons to do something different. In this way, the spec allows for some 
flexibility for each language to implement features as idiomatically as possible. 

> For example, most languages have implemented `RecordException`, while Go has 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
For example, most languages have implemented `RecordException` (e.g. [Python](https://opentelemetry-python.readthedocs.io/en/latest/_modules/opentelemetry/sdk/trace.html#Span.record_exception)), while Go has 
```

> implemented `RecordError`, which does the same thing. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
implemented [`RecordError`](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go/blob/main/sdk/trace/span.go), which does the same thing. 
```

record span events without setting the span’s status to `Error`, which means you
can use it to record any additional data about a span.

By decoupling the span status from being automatically set to `Error` when a
span exception occurs, you can support the use case where you can have an
exception event with a status of `Ok` or `Unset`. This gives instrumentation
authors the most flexibility.

### Errors in logs

In OTel, a log is a structured, timestamped message emitted by a service or
other component. The recent addition of logs to OTel gives us yet another way of
reporting errors. Logs have traditionally had different severity levels for
representing the type of message being emitted such as `DEBUG`, `INFO`,
`WARNING`, `ERROR`, and `CRITICAL`.

OTel allows for the correlation of logs to traces, in which a log message can be
associated to a span within a trace, via trace context correlation. Hence,
looking for a log message with a log level of `ERROR` or `CRITICAL` can yield
further information of what led to that error, by pulling up the correlated
trace.

To record an error on a log, either `exception.type` or `exception.message` is

> required, while `exception.stacktrace` is recommended. You can view more
> information about the semantic conventions for log exceptions
> [here](/docs/specs/semconv/exceptions/exceptions-logs/).

Reviewer 4: Avoid links with link-text "here":

```suggestion
required, while `exception.stacktrace` is recommended. For more information, see
[Semantic Conventions for Exceptions in Logs](/docs/specs/semconv/exceptions/exceptions-logs/).
```

> spans or logs? The answer is: "It depends!" Perhaps your team primarily uses 
> traces; perhaps they primarily use logs.

Reviewer 6: Just a quick suggestion to make this sentence parallel.

```suggestion
spans or logs? The answer is: "It depends!" Perhaps your team primarily uses 
traces; perhaps it primarily uses logs.
```

Author: Thank you! Great catch.

across various languages, providing guidelines for implementation, but allowing
for a degree of flexibility.

You can record errors on spans by making use of your language SDK’s
`RecordException` or its equivalent, and enrich the span events further by
adding custom attributes. You can also record errors on logs by adding
`exception.type` or `exception.message`, and capture the stack trace by adding
`exception.stacktrace` to yield further information about what happened.

Once that data is in your observability backend, if you have previously used
their proprietary monitoring agent, you might notice that there is a difference
in how OTel-instrumented errors are visualized versus how the agent-instrumented
errors were visualized. This is mainly because OTel models errors differently
than vendors might have previously done.

By leveraging OTel's capabilities to record errors through logs and spans and to
enhance them with metadata, you can gain deeper insights into your applications'
behavior and more effectively troubleshoot issues. You'll be better equipped to
build and maintain resilient, reliable, and high-performing software

> applications in today's dynamic and demanding environments. Learn more about
> error handling in OTel [here](/docs/specs/otel/error-handling/).

Reviewer 4: Avoid links with link-text "here":

```suggestion
applications in today's dynamic and demanding environments. To learn more, see
[Error handling in OpenTelemetry](/docs/specs/otel/error-handling/).
```

---
title: Dude, where's my error? How OpenTelemetry records errors
linkTitle: Understanding OTel Errors

> date: 2024-04-12

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: 2024-04-19
```

record span events without setting the span’s status to `Error`, which means you
can use it to record any additional data about a span.

By decoupling the span status from being automatically set to `Error` when a
span exception occurs, you can support the use case where you can have an
exception event with a status of `Ok` or `Unset`. This gives instrumentation
authors the most flexibility.

### Errors in logs

In OTel, a log is a structured, timestamped message emitted by a service or
other component. The recent addition of logs to OTel gives us yet another way of
reporting errors. Logs have traditionally had different severity levels for
representing the type of message being emitted such as `DEBUG`, `INFO`,
`WARNING`, `ERROR`, and `CRITICAL`.

OTel allows for the correlation of logs to traces, in which a log message can be
associated to a span within a trace, via trace context correlation. Hence,
looking for a log message with a log level of `ERROR` or `CRITICAL` can yield
further information of what led to that error, by pulling up the correlated
trace.

To record an error on a log, either `exception.type` or `exception.message` is

> <<<<<<< HEAD required, while `exception.stacktrace` is recommended. You can view

Reviewer: good catch! @reese-lee please take a look

> <<<<<<< HEAD required, while `exception.stacktrace` is recommended. You can view

Author: Yikes! Thank you @simi. I caught another one towards the end as well. Should be good now.

---
title: Dude, where's my error? How OpenTelemetry records errors
linkTitle: Understanding OTel Errors
date: 2024-04-12 

> author: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
author: >-
```

Reviewer: I think this should fix the issue with the log error and the failed build
